# Timing

The hits digitized by the board must be time stamped using the clock and the synchronous timing commands distributed to all the nodes of the system. The DPB receives these signals from a custom electronics board, called __TDM__, using a fiber optic link. The clock is cleaned by a _PLL_ and distributed to the two Digitizers, along with the timing commands.

The physical links consists of 3 differential pairs routed through the MiniSAS cable connecting each Digitizer to the DPB.
The signals are:

 - 125 MHz TIMING CLOCK (from the DPB to the DIG)
 - TX TIMING SIGNAL (from the DPB to the DIG)
 - RX TIMING SIGNAL (from the DIG to the DPB)

The Digitizer will lock onto the timing clock only when the timing protocol is locked too. The timing link protocol consists of synchronous commands which occur always at well defined instants. The most important is called _TDC reset_: it is a 8ns pulse occurring at the roll-over of a 16bit counter whose time base is the 250ps of the TDC. Hence, the time span of this counter is 16.384us.

Time stamping takes place merging together a 125MHz 11bit counter, a 500MHz 3bit counter, whose clock is the 125MHz clock multiplied by 4 and provides 2 bits, and the TDC timestamping which provides 3bit with a resolution of 250ps.

The _TDC reset_ is used by the DIG FW to start the local counters, at the beginning of operations, and then is checked against local roll-over to guarantee that no clock cycle went missing. In case of a discrepancy between the _TDC reset_ and the local counters, ie the local counters are not zero when the _TDC reset_ is active, an error is raised and the counters are reset.

Since the DPB is providing the clock and timing link, the DIG is not capable to distinguish if timing info are generated locally by the DPB or if the DPB is forwarding those info sent by the TDM.

## Local timing

This is a very special operating mode which was foreseen to allow data acquisition using the KC705 board. Since the connection between DIG and KC705 consists only of the high speed serial links, no timing link can be propagated to the DIG. In this case, to allow hits time stamping, the time base is generated locally on the DIG.

With this mode, no correlation between DIGs is possible, since each DIG will run using a local clock, which has nominally the same frequency but, actually, slightly different because it is generated by a local oscillator.

## TDC algorithm

The TDC algorithm is a classical 8-phase TDC: the incoming 125MHz clock is multiplied by 4 up to 500MHz; these high speed clock is then properly delayed to have 8 replica of the clock at the same frequency but at different phases.

The trigger signal is sampled by each on each clock and, decoding where the edge of the trigger falls, the 250ps time stamping is implemented. The complexity of the code is also in "moving" the sampled information from one phase to the other allowing as much as possible routing time to obtain timing closure of the FW. At the end of the conversion, the encoded information resides in the 3 bits provided by the TDC in the clock domain corresponding to phase 0.

### Timing SC

A command allows the user to read back the status of the clock: it can be LOCAL or DPB, according on how the timing information are being generated.

```
READ DIGx CLOCK ????
```
where:

- `x` is the digitizer number (0/1)

There is a specific command which can be used to force the choice of the LOCAL or DPB clock (this command shouldn't be used):
```
SET DIGx CLOCK val ????
```
where:

- `x` is the digitizer number (0/1)
- `val` selects the calibration type (0/2)

